    Software Architechture   -->   Quality Attributes
   -------------------------      =====================

   http://www.softwarearchitectures.com/
   
   
   
    Responsiveness - System reaction time.
                   - This attribute is defined as the speed of the system to respond 
                     to a user request.
                     
         Usability - This is the ability of the customer to perform their work with
                     the system in an efficient and enjoyable way.
                   - Working with the system should be based on skills that the user 
                     already has and not require new or unique knowledge to use 
                     the system.
                   - Each new function that the user encounters must follow a similar
                     pattern so that once the user has learned one function, the others
                     can learn intuitively (consistency).
                   - Composition of usability: 
                         Learnability - How easy it is for users of a system to perform
                                        basic tasks.
                           Efficiency - Once users learn the basics of the user interface,
                                        how fast they can complete tasks.
                         Memorability - When users return to the system after a period in
                                        which they have not used it, how easily they can
                                        regain their skill.
                               Errors - How many mistakes users make, how severe these
                                        mistakes are and how easily they can recover from
                                        the mistakes made.
                        Sattisfaction - How pleasant it is to work with the system.
                   - RULES: 1.DON'T MAKE ME THINK?
                            https://www.amazon.com/Dont-Make-Me-Think-Usability/dp/0321344758
                            2.GET TO KNOW YOUR USERS?
                            3.BE CONSTANT!  -> DISCUSSION…
                            https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/best-usability-testing-tools/
                            
  Distributability - The ability to manage a group of systems as a whole and to manage from
                     anywhere in the network.
                   - It must be determined whether a component will run in the main process
                     or in a stand-alone process on the same machine or on a remote machine
                     (server).
                     
    Serviceability - The ability to monitor systems during their operation, identify 
                     problems, perform analysis of the root causes of these problems.
                   - The main goal is to discover and solve problems, i.e. restoring 
                     the system to working state.
                   - This attribute refers to the ability to technically maintain, 
                     identify, and debug systems without shutting down systems.
                     Problems may be reported by customers or service representatives.
                   - Each system must have a module that supports the Error log. 
                     If necessary, this module is configured to generate error messages
                     with varying degrees of detail. The module can automatically notify 
                     the persons responsible for the maintenance of the system of the 
                     occurrence of a problem via e-mail or other communication channel.
                     
     Extensibility - It is a principle in software engineering and systems design that
                     provides future development or growth. Extensions can be by adding
                     new functionality or by modifying an existing one. 
                   - The principle provides for improvements without compromising existing
                     system functions.
                   - Extension Mechanisms:
                            White-Box - is performed if the source code of the system is
                                        available with or without its modification.
                             Open-Box - approach with modification of the source code. 
                                        The most flexible approach.
                            Glass-Box - approach without direct replacement of the original
                                        source code.
                            Black-Box - extension without access to the source code of the
                                        system, uses documentation of available programming
                                        interfaces and adding new modules.
                             Gray-Box - a compromise option that does not rely entirely on
                                        access to source code. Uses part of the code, mostly
                                        describing the program interfaces.              
                   
       Scalability - The ability to the system to cope with the increase in load without
                     reducing its productivity. 
                   - The need for scalability may arise when:
                        * increasing the number of users of the system;
                        * increasing the volume of processed;
                   - Types of Scalability:
                        Horizontal (Scale Out) - is the addition / implementation of
                                                 additional modules of the same type, 
                                                 most often running on separate servers
                                                 (Load Balancing).
                           Vertical (Scale Up) - adding resources to an existing computing
                                                 node (server) - adding processor, memory,
                                                 network bandwidth.
                          Database scalability - for the database.
                          
   Maintainability - This attribute is related to the ease with which a product can be
                     maintained, with the ability to:
                        * correction of defects or their cause;
                        * repairing or replacing defective or worn components without
                          having to replace working parts;
                        * prevention of unexpected working conditions;
                        * increase the useful life of the product;
                        * maximum efficiency, reliability and safety;
                        * meeting the new requirements;
                        * facilitate future maintenance or deal with a changed environment;
                        
          Security - It is an attribute related to the degree of protection of data from
                     unauthorized access to them, providing user identification.
                   - Security associated with:
                        * Identification - a process in which the user declares his
                                           identity - by username or identification code;
                        * Authentication - a process by which the user proves his identity 
                                           - by entering a password, pin code, fingerprint;
                        * Authorization - the process of granting rights to perform
                                          activities after users are authenticated;
                        * Audit
                        * Encryption

       Portability - High level portability is the usability of the same software in
                     different environments. A prerequisite for portability is the
                     generalized abstraction between the logic of the application 
                     and the system interfaces. 
                   - When producing software with the same functionality for multiple
                     computer platforms, portability is essential problem to reduce
                     development costs.
                     
       Reliability - Reliability indicators are used to quantify the reliability of the
                     software product. The variant of using a certain indicator depends 
                     on the type of system to which it is applied and on the requirements 
                     of the field of application. 
                   - The reliability indicators that can be used to quantify the reliability
                     of the software product are the following:
                          * Mean Time to Failure (MTTF) - described as time interval between
                                                          two consecutive failures.
                          * Mean Time to Repair (MTTR):
                              If an error occurs, it takes some time to correct it. 
                              The MTTR measures the average time required to track 
                              faults causing damage and to rectify them. Mathematically
                              speaking, this is the total time for fault correction time
                              divided by the total number of fault correction actions over
                              a given period of time.
                          * Mean Time Between Failure (MTBR) -   MTBF = MTTF + MTTR
                              MTBF can be calculated as arithmetic mean (mean) time
                              between system failures.
                     
       Testability - Software verification is the extent to which a software artifact 
                     (i.e. software system, software module, requirements or design 
                     document) supports testing in a given test context.
                   - If the test life of the software artifact is high, then finding 
                     faults in the system (if any) by testing is easier.
                     
    Compatiability - Forward Compatiability - This is a design compatibility that allows
                     the system to accept input intended for a later version of itself.
                     The concept can be applied to entire electrical systems interfaces,
                     telecommunication signals, protocols for data communication, file
                     formats and languages ​​for programming. A design that is compatible
                     with this attribute usually has roadmap for compatibility with future
                     standards and products.
                   - Backwards Compatiability - This is a property of a system product or
                     technology that allows operational compatibility with older legacy
                     system or with input, intended for such a system, especially in
                     telecommunications and computer technology.

